NE-743: include upstream resolvers in the DNS Opertaor CRD (#39661)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-dns-forward.adoc

[id="nw-dns-forward_{context}"]
= Using DNS forwarding

> You can use DNS forwarding to:

Reviewer: From IBM Style Guide (ISG): 

> Generally, use a sentence to introduce a list that is not a procedure.

I suggest something like this:
```suggestion
You can use DNS forwarding to change configuration settings in the following ways:
```

Author: Comment addressed.

* Specifying name servers for every zone. If the forwarded zone is the Ingress domain managed by {product-title}, then the upstream name server must be authorized for the domain.
* Providing a list of upstream DNS servers.

> * Changing the default forwarding policy.

Reviewer 2: I'd consider changing these to imperatives. Specify, Provide, Change.

Author: @ctauchen comment addressed.

> * Override the forwarding configuration in `/etc/resolv.conf` on a per-zone basis by specifying which name server should be used for a given zone. If the forwarded zone is the Ingress domain managed by {product-title}, then the upstream name server must be authorized for the domain.
> * Override the default upstream, `/etc/resolv.conf` by providing a list of upstream DNS servers.
> * Override the default forwarding policy.

Reviewer: Minor nits for clarity if you like:
```suggestion
* Override forwarding in the `/etc/resolv.conf` file on a per-zone basis by specifying which name server should be used for a given zone. If the forwarded zone is the Ingress domain managed by {product-title}, then the upstream name server must be authorized for the domain.
* Override the default upstream in the `/etc/resolv.conf` file by providing a list of upstream DNS servers.
* Override the default forwarding policy.
```

Author: Comment addressed.

> * Override the default forwarding policy.

Reviewer 2: This would benefit from line or two that tells us how this 'override' process works. When I read this, it takes me some time to find the connection between these three methods and the configuration below. I also get confused about the difference between /etc/resolv.conf and the object we modify in the procedure "Sample DNS".

Two other ideas:
1. It might help to link each of the three methods with the exact key or keys that you modify.
2. It might be better to describe the process only in a general way before the procedure. You can add a description of the three methods closer to the sample file.

Reviewer: > It might be better to describe the process only in a general way before the procedure. You can add a description of the three methods closer to the sample file.

+1 to this suggestion. I also find it takes some time to understand how the intro correlates to the example.

Author: @ctauchen @bobfuru Thanks for the comments. I have made changes. Please check.

[NOTE]
=====

> You can specify both `/etc/resolv.conf` and the upstream resolvers for the default domain.

Reviewer 2: Can you be more explicit here?

Specify /etc/resolv.conf ... for the default domain. What does that mean? Specify a default domain in the /etc/resolv.conf file?

Same for this:
Specify the upstream resolvers for the default domain. What does this mean?

Author: Comment addressed.

= Using DNS forwarding

> You can use DNS forwarding to override the forwarding configuration identified in `/etc/resolv.conf` on a per-zone basis by specifying which name server should be used for a given zone. If the forwarded zone is the Ingress domain managed by {product-title}, then the upstream name server must be authorized for the domain.
> You can also override the forwarding configuration in `/etc/resolv.conf` for the default domain by providing a list of upstream DNS servers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use DNS forwarding to override the default forwarding configuration, which uses upstreams from  `/etc/resolv.conf` 

* on a per-zone basis by specifying which name server should be used for a given zone. If the forwarded zone is the Ingress domain managed by {product-title}, then the upstream name server must be authorized for the domain.

* You can also override the default upstream `/etc/resolv.conf` by providing a list of upstream DNS servers.
```

Author: @sherine-k comment addressed.

$ oc edit dns.operator/default
----
+

> This allows the Operator to create and update the ConfigMap named `dns-default` with additional server configuration blocks based on `Server`. If none of the servers has a zone that matches the query, then name resolution falls back to the upstream DNS servers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This allows the Operator to create and update the ConfigMap named `dns-default` with additional server configuration blocks based on `Server`. If none of the servers has a zone that matches the query, then name resolution falls back to the upstream DNS servers under `UpstreamResolvers`.
```

Reviewer: Looks like this suggested change didn't make it in.

Author: Since `UpstreamResolvers` comes later in the procedure, it may be out of place. Just "upstream DNS servers" conveys the same.

Reviewer 2: Did you confirm this with your SME?

      upstreams:
        - 3.3.3.3
        - 4.4.4.4:5454
  upstreamResolvers: <4>

>       policy: Random <5>
>       upstreams: <6>
>         - type: SystemResolvConf <7>
>         - type: Network
>           address: 1.2.3.4 <8>
>           port: 53 <9>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    policy: Random <5>
    upstreams: <6>
    - type: SystemResolvConf <7>
    - type: Network
      address: 1.2.3.4 <8>
      port: 53 <9>
```

Author: @sherine-k comment addressed.

----
<1> `name` must comply with the `rfc6335` service name syntax.
<2> `zones` must conform to the definition of a `subdomain` in `rfc1123`. The cluster domain, `cluster.local`, is an invalid `subdomain` for `zones`.
<3> A maximum of 15 `upstreams` is allowed per `forwardPlugin`.

> <4> `upstreamResolvers` is optional. You can use it to override the default policy and proxy DNS messages to the specified DNS resolvers (upstream resolvers) for the default domain. If you do not provide any upstream resolvers, the DNS name queries resolve to `/etc/resolv.conf`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<4> `upstreamResolvers` is optional. You can use it to override the default policy and forward DNS resolution to the specified DNS resolvers (upstream resolvers) for the default domain. If you do not provide any upstream resolvers, the DNS name queries are forwarded to servers in `/etc/resolv.conf`.
```

Author: @sherine-k comment addressed.

Author: @sherine-k comment addressed.

<5> `policy` determines the order in which upstream servers are selected for querying. You can specify one of these values: `Random`, `RoundRobin`, and `Sequential`. The default value is `Sequential`.
<6> `upstreams` is optional. You can use it to provide upstream resolvers.
<7> You can specify two types of `upstreams` - `SystemResolvConf` and `Network`. `SystemResolvConf` is for configuring the upstream to use `/etc/resolv.conf` and `Network` is for defining a `Networkresolver`. You can specify one or both.
<8> If the specified type is `Network`, you must provide an IP address. `address` must be a valid IPv4 or IPv6 address.
<9> If the specified type is `Network`, you can optionally provide a port. `port` must be between 1 and 65535.

> 

Reviewer 3: Perfect @chinmayi-chandrasekar , all is accurate here. :+1: 
I'm a bit concerned that it seems rather complex to understand for our readers, having many fields optional at several levels. 
Aspects such as mandatory vs optional, allowed values, etc would be in https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/rest_api/operator_apis/dns-operator-openshift-io-v1.html (or equivalent)
So maybe in this page, we could give more simple and practical examples, such as:
* I want to override the DNS servers for a specific zone
* I want to override the default DNS server (the upstream) and use a list of network addresses
* I want to keep /etc/resolv.conf but use a different policy
* maybe only as note, specify that it is possible to mix both
* I

      upstreams:
        - 3.3.3.3
        - 4.4.4.4:5454
  upstreamResolvers: <4>
    policy: Random <5>
    upstreams: <6>
    - type: SystemResolvConf <7>
    - type: Network
      address: 1.2.3.4 <8>
      port: 53 <9>
----
<1> `name` must comply with the `rfc6335` service name syntax.
<2> `zones` must conform to the definition of a `subdomain` in `rfc1123`. The cluster domain, `cluster.local`, is an invalid `subdomain` for `zones`.
<3> A maximum of 15 `upstreams` is allowed per `forwardPlugin`.

> <4> `upstreamResolvers` is optional. You can use it to override the default policy and forward DNS resolution to the specified DNS resolvers (upstream resolvers) for the default domain. If you do not provide any upstream resolvers, the DNS name queries go to the servers in `/etc/resolv.conf`.
> <5> `policy` determines the order in which upstream servers are selected for querying. You can specify one of these values: `Random`, `RoundRobin`, and `Sequential`. The default value is `Sequential`.
> <6> `upstreams` is optional. You can use it to provide upstream resolvers.
> <7> You can specify two types of `upstreams` - `SystemResolvConf` and `Network`. `SystemResolvConf` is for configuring the upstream to use `/etc/resolv.conf` and `Network` is for defining a `Networkresolver`. You can specify one or both.
> <8> If the specified type is `Network`, you must provide an IP address. `address` must be a valid IPv4 or IPv6 address.
> <9> If the specified type is `Network`, you can optionally provide a port. `port` must be between 1 and 65535.

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary in some of these to repeat the field name.

```suggestion
<4> Optional. You can use this setting to override the default policy and forward DNS resolution to the specified upstream DNS resolvers for the default domain. If you do not provide any upstream resolvers, the DNS name queries go to the servers in `/etc/resolv.conf`.
<5> Determines the order in which upstream servers are selected for querying. You can specify one of these values: `Random`, `RoundRobin`, and `Sequential`. The default value is `Sequential`.
<6> Optional. You can use it to provide upstream resolvers.
<7> There are two types of `upstreams`: `SystemResolvConf` configures the upstream to use `/etc/resolv.conf`, and `Network` defines a `Networkresolver`. You can specify one or both.
<8> If the specified type is `Network`, you must provide an IP address. `address` must be a valid IPv4 or IPv6 address.
<9> If the specified type is `Network`, you can optionally provide a port. `port` must be between 1 and 65535.
```

Author: Comment addressed.
